[Music]
you know with more and more people using
the Internet both in their business and
private life it's no wonder it's
becoming scammers favorite playground
but since most of us have already
learned to secure our email social media
accounts and dating profiles criminals
have to adjust and invent new schemes so
here's the bad news for you
it's getting way harder to protect
yourself against scammers because
they've now started to target brace
yourself
your Google Calendar in short this scam
uses hyperlink embedded events to get
access to your sensitive information the
scam goes like this first cyber
criminals begin to spam your Google
Calendar with tons of alluring calendar
events and if you have the default
settings which adds any event you're
invited to to your calendar
beware you're the very person these
scammers need once the event is added
Google will start to send you
notifications and believe me they look
very trustworthy okay let's say you've
opened the invitation inside you see
something along the lines of congrats
you're getting a cash reward but don't
get your hopes up as soon as you hit the
hyperlink attached to the text it'll
take you to a special forum where you'll
need to enter your personal information
from your family name to your credit
card number well I guess it's obvious
how con artists can use this info right
so why do people fall for this scam well
nowadays we've learned the hard way to
be cautious about each suspicious letter
that drops into our email box but very
few people expect a phishing link to be
sent to their Google Calendar so a
person who's only been receiving
invitations from coworkers and friends
for years will fall into the trap
luckily you can't protect yourself from
this scam without much trouble and no
you won't need to delete your life
organizing app open your Google Calendar
go to settings choose event settings and
for automatically add invitations there
select no only show invitations to which
I've responded this way once you ignore
a suspicious invitation it won't appear
in your calendar ever again plus make
sure that the option show declined
events is unselected did you just change
your settings and breathe a sigh of
relief sorry to disappoint you but
that's not the only internet scam you
should be aware of these days for
example who doesn't like free Wi-Fi but
you should be extremely careful when
using an unfamiliar hotspot imagine
you're at the airport or in a coffee
shop and in urgent need of the internet
you check available Wi-Fi hotspots and
how convenient here it is no password
required but what you don't know is that
this network has been set up by a con
artist and is connected to their laptop
as soon as you join the hotspot they'll
immediately have access to your computer
or cell phone and you can be sure they
won't hesitate to mine your gadget for
your personal and financial data now to
avoid falling for this scheme you need
to tinker with your gadget settings some
more first make sure that your device
doesn't join any open Wi-Fi network
automatically switch on asked to join
new networks option and turn off your
Wi-Fi when you're not using it on top of
that before visiting public places such
as an airport find out the official
Wi-Fi networks name in advance
are you a Netflix lover then you could
become a victim of the following scam
recently Netflix customers have started
to receive fraudulent emails that claim
to be sent by Netflix itself inside
there are messages that encourage you to
click on a malicious link and provide
your personal data as well as your
payment information for example the
email may go like this dear customer in
the process of regular maintenance we
noticed an error in your account if you
don't update your data within the
following 24 hours we'll restrict your
access to the account at first sight
this scam may seem amateur but
as soon as you're the one to get the
email it suddenly becomes very
convincing after all who wants to cut
off from all their favorite shows
luckily Netflix has published several
tips on how to avoid being tricked first
do not enter your financial and personal
details after you've followed a link in
a text message or an email even better
type WWN flexkom directly into the
browser's address bar also if you think
that the email you got isn't from
Netflix don't send any reply the hitman
scam is another scheme that's recently
become popular one day you get a
threatening email with money demands
this scam may have different variations
from a threat to kidnap a family member
to a promise to damage your property now
to make this threat sound more realistic
and dangerous cyber criminals fill the
email with your personal life details
where do they collect this info well
naturally from your social media
accounts and personal blogs don't fall
for these threats and don't click on any
links they may have attached admittedly
this scam is the most psychologically
scary but if you're in doubt it's better
to notify the police and don't transfer
any money to the criminals the next scam
is particularly nasty since it uses your
kindness and compassion a scammer starts
a crowdfunding website based on
something that's recently gotten a lot
of news coverage be it a natural
disaster or a viral person in need story
after that the con artists encourages
the site's visitors to contribute their
money to the case and share the link on
social media on top of that they send
out emails asking for donations if you
open the link and transfer money to the
mentioned account using a bank card the
criminal will get access to your bank
information and can drain your account
to avoid being tricked don't follow any
links you get via email and don't click
on any suspicious web addresses you may
come across on social media if you want
to help someone in need
find the charity that's working with
this case and go straight to their
official site make sure that the site is
secure and the URL starts with HTTPS
colon slash slash only after that
provide your bank card information oh
look I know it says you've got an urgent
email coming from your social network it
says that someone's trying to get access
to your account and you need to sign in
immediately to verify the information
alarming isn't it but it gets even more
disturbing once you find out that this
is another phishing scheme and the email
has been sent by a con artist if you
click on the link provided in the email
you'll get to a fake website which will
ask you to sign in if you do scammers
will be able to access your real account
and steal your identity to send spam to
your contacts or even blackmail you by
using your personal data luckily you can
easily avoid becoming the victim of this
scam if you get a disconcerting message
encouraging you to check your social
media visit your account via the
networks app if you don't have this app
on your gadget type the web address of
the page directly into the address bar
besides it's a good idea to set up
2-step verification on your social media
account this way if someone tries to
access it you'll receive a text
notifying you about a threat tech
support scam is not only common it also
sounds exceptionally convincing
especially to those who don't have
technical knowledge so the scam goes
like this your smart phone rings but you
don't recognize the number on display
still you decide to answer the person on
the other side introduces themselves as
a software company representative and
explains the reason for their call
according to them your computer has been
hacked by cyber criminals and no one but
this representative can help you deal
with this urgent issue their story is
very convincing they tell you this
number of your computer and assisting
getting access to its unique ID after
that
they persuade you that your computer's
having serious problems after it was
half if you fall for this scam the
scammer may talk you into giving them
remote access to your computer then they
either steal your personal info or tell
you about additional software you need
to install to protect your PC if you
agree they tell you to pay for the
software as a result there's nothing you
can do but provide the cyber criminals
with your credit card details but you
can avoid this unpleasant situation if
you choose not to trust unknown people
who call you introducing themselves as
tech experts and requesting your
personal and financial info do not give
strangers remote access to your computer
they may easily install malicious
software download software only from
official sites and always use an
anti-virus program to protect your data
so their know-how about you have you
ever become a victim of an internet scam
let me know down in the comments if you
learn something new today then give this
video a like and share it with a friend
but hey don't go falling for any more
scams ever again meanwhile we have over
2,000 cool videos for you to check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video click on it and enjoy stay
on the bright side of life